I know how past me would react to the title…”aw, jeez, Richard, are you really sliding into the emo feels again?” With good reason, I would think. Past Richard, indeed, bore the weight of meaningless interpersonal forces on his shoulders. He knew but the depression of his emotions into the cool earth, where they made imprints that would somehow never take shape inside his own heart.

Alas, poor Richard. He still struggles with the frustration of a subdued affect today. Not a sun sets without his recognition that he must continually endure a devastation suppressed but not invisible.

Well, I step up to declare that such asteroids frustrating my personal universe are not to be at the forefront of this post. Nor, I should add, are those asteroids at the forefront of my life right now.

I’ve been getting along pretty well lately, despite having a despicable degen routine in many ways. My sleep schedule is fucked, and I know no way to level my waking time back to any hour before 11 AM. I spend my days in a house with little privacy, in a room with barely any sunlight. My posture is probably shit and my eyes are wasting away before the sneaky luminescence of my computer screen.

What is going on that’s keeping my knots taut? For one, the fact that it’s summer and I’m not bound down by a job or any other mandatory commitment is somewhat relieving, even though I do itch to pursue grand projects here and there. I realize that I take for granted the ability to make choices with my life on my own terms, now that I have absolutely nothing to live for.

That might sound bleak and awfully degenerative in any other instance, but fortunately, I’ve been keeping myself busy in the weeks since summer vacation has started. (and to think that it’s already more than half over…brrrr!) Watching online courses on web design, listening to engaging audiobooks (although I could be doing myself a favor by reading more actual paper books…), having a handful of good and trustworthy friends to talk to online, and being somewhat active with school club commitments…those things have kept my attitude from sinking into the sands as of late, more than they normally would on a wasteful vacation.

It’s definitely important to recognize that a large part of my sanity exists because I don’t feel as lonely as I had at other times; for instance, during winter break, when I skipped a horribly uninteresting computer science class because I had nothing to show for it, or at the end of my last fall semester, when I dipped into a deep depression and self-imposed exile for the inability to keep up to task with my work. In the past semester alone, I have been in contact with more people, both online and offline, than freshman me would have ever dreamed of doing in his semester.

In thinking about what I just wrote, perhaps a lot of those stresses do also boil down to the stress of deadlines, and my inability to conform to the demands of the traditional educational system. Yeah, as much as I hate to write that and directly blame institutional failures for my own shortcomings, I do think it could be a very real possibility that I simply don’t do school well. A lot of it might have to do with my awful attention span, which cuts into my discipline and motivation to follow up for a class, even if I found that class to be extremely engaging or interesting in material…that’s what it means to be a degen. For me, at least. Some wicked interplay of failure and fear.

But it’s okay. I feel like everything will be okay. I am doing my best to be me right now, and although I am living a completely different lifestyle than the one I lived while still in my school’s dorms, I feel like it’s what I’ve needed in a long time. A break from having to blindly trust–and constantly fail at–relying on the structure of schedules and side activities to give constraint, and thereby creativity, to my life. Maybe I just needed some freedom instead. Maybe I just needed some fresh air.

Anyways, that’s all the rambling I have in store for tonight. See you soon–for when I hopefully have a more specific topic than “hoho how’s life” in mind.
